# Solid Project: Solid Team

* Date: 2022-05-11T15:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-team
* Chat: https://gitter.com/solid/team
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/team
* Status: Published


## Present
* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i)
* Jeff Zucker
* Timea Turdean
* Jackson Morgan
* Alain Bourgeois
* Virginia Balseiro
* Ruben Verborgh
* Tim BL
* Osmar Olivo (Oz)
* Kyra Assaad
* Kelly O'Brien

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.


### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribes
* Sarven


### Introductions
* name: text

---

## Topics

### Solid World
#### Investigate setup for email notification.
URL: https://github.com/solid/team/blob/main/meetings/2022-04-13.md#solid-world-status-update--transparency

>ACTION: Investigate setup for email notification.


#### Communication Role
URL: https://github.com/solid/team/blob/main/meetings/2022-04-13.md#solid-support-role

>ACTION: KO, to PR process/role.


#### Contact methods to speak at Solid World
* SC: https://gitter.im/cern-solid/community?at=6266a0776b912423209cc878
* TT: The form did work but the problem was that no one had time to reply. However that is now taken care of. As in, I talked with Kelly, there was a professor that didn't get a reply due to holidays and stuff. and now we are in communication and plan to his availability. Just due to holiday.
* SC: Can we streamline communication, e.g., at least provide GitHub PR as a request to speak?
* KA: I feel like that's a lot of overhead because not everyone has a GH account or knows how to PR. Not sure if there is an advantage to switching to a form. Would like to know what TT thinks as they're in charge of the form.
* TT: Agreed. Just being open to diverse applicants and success possible. The form we have in place is okay. I think the discussion was more about more people having access to the notification/email. Knowing more people dedicated to the registration and attending them. So far anyone applies gets to talk. We don't have a tonne of applicants. For now we don't need to decide who gets to talk. It is just about the order. What the speakers want and went. The email notification would help more tremendously and then get to the next problem / how to solve it.
* TT: We could talk about PR methods? Where can we post that form to tell more applicants where to participants. On diverse topics.
* TBL: May need a plan when we do.
* TT: Not at the moment.
* SC: I meant as complementary.


### solidproject.org listing all repos
URL: https://github.com/solid/team/blob/main/meetings/2022-04-13.md#applying-the-proposed-guidelines-to-repositories-under-githubcomsolid-22

>ACTION: RV to make a webpage on solidproject.org that lists all of the repos.

* RV: Review of repository move
* RV: solid/ ha da lot of project dating back 7 years. Tons of discussions in this group to have solid/ only for neutral projects and lets move all code/implementations/projects elsewhere. We have notified all repo owners - where they wish to move. If not decided, it goes to solid-contrib. Before we did this, there was another status. Some things gave Solid a certain endorsement - not necessarily what we intended. Thanks to Alain, Timea and actually everyone involved. It currently contains high quality content ??? We also have a strong solid-contrib/ and of course we have lots of projects spread around everyone - good, decentralised. but we also lose track of things where they are. to be specific, last action from last time - to move things out. we should all think about how to link to projects out there. there is a second todo, which is about how we govern solid-contrib/. we have agreed on solid/ but the intention for solid-contrib/ to only contain projects that they didn't have a home. it wasn't for new projects to be created. so, do we intend solid-contrib/ to have new stuff? that leaves the action points. I'll leave time for feedback/discussion and then then I have another point to rap-up.
* JZ: I'm wondering in terms of page on solid where it points to all these repos, if there is single solid-contrib/ it can point there with some caveat. this gets to the question of TT where it lists solid applications. I think we should think about central page where you can basically get everything. we ned to figure out what that page will say and especially with solid-contrib/
* RV: Point taken. Majority of projects are elsewhere - not in solid-contrib/. Proposal can be a page on solidproject website.
* TBL: In general I would of course like this stuff to be in RDF on a Solid pod. We can of course - easy way to do is to have a form where you fill out with all these things and then problem is we don't have GH PR. We can have a PR for example where one member of the group keeping the form up to date. What's useful is to keep the metadata about these things to provide all these views and pull all that out from the original data.
* SC: My understanding of solid-contrib/ was temporary. Do we allow new repos or?
* OO: What's the intention of solid-contrib/ again?
* RV: As SC said.. that was the intention but do we want something else?
* OO: I guess the goal would be get everything off of it and shut it down?
* RV: Even the parking space needs governance.. if it is not used, perhaps archive. As in not accessible any more.
* AB: I have one problem with that. That is most of the repos in s-c/ are accessible, we can have a list of them. if it is not part of solid then we have a problem on how to reference all these repos.
* RV: That ties into other points I mentioned. how do we list them? If indeed we maintain under solidproject.org that has all the links everywhere.. does that address your concern or something else?
* AB: It would but the only question I have is how that list will be maintained. the old way was easy. maintenance is a difficult. the main problem I have is with the change.
* RV: If sp.org accepts new items, that'd be ...
* TBL: We could close it and have solid-contrib-X.
* RV: Not opposed but idea was other projects have their own orgs/groups.. intention is where people more ownership.
* TBL: But then as AB says, keeping track of solid apps .. may be most important thing. and then they have to find out where things are rotted as libraries change ??? maintaining stuff is hard.
* OO: What does this have to do with GH discussion? it doesn't have to live in a single repo. seems like different discussions.
* RV: the only thing we changed is that repos are more spread out more. we can maintain the list. if we vote that contrib doesn't grow.
* AB: Intent is good but problem is with practicality. We have a small group to keep it updated. I didn't figure a way to do it. Maybe you can better than I could.
* TBL: OO you mentioned just make a list and how do you propose to maintain that.
* OO: We had a process where the list like apps was updated. That was a lite touch way. Not saying it is compliant.. just high level whether it is broken or functional.. contact the maintainer about it. if still working, great stays on the list. if not, we remove them from the list after 6 weeks or something . again someone needs to be assigned to do that and go through the list. we do receive emails to be added. maintaining the list is orthogonal to grooming the repo situation. we dropped the ball on this since Marrelle left..
* AB: Good point when someone is responsible they disappear..
* JZ: Agree with AB.. checking solely DPOP compliant and not other aspects of whether they work or not. (work done so far: https://solidproject.solidcommunity.net/Team/dpop-migration/) I don't think it is realistic given the resources on this list to that on that level. it should be a group of people and understood as a
* OO: Agree. It was about the single point of failure. I don't think it is our job to check compliance. If some servers deprecate support, then the app will stop working. it is not our job to see if it is working or not. all we can do is do you work with these servers.. as the servers become spec compliant...  but I say that's actually the wrong way of going at it.
* JZ: That's a very minimal thing it just does/doesn't work.
* OO: Doesn't this go against the policy.. if not working with
* SC: Can RV perhaps consider following up with PROPOSALs?

ACTION: RV, points are to decide what to do with solid-contrib, whether to maintain list apps libs and so on.. and separate is testing.

* RV: Given time commitments I won't be able to continue doing this. As mentioned by others, more diversity wouldn't hurt.. ??? I won't be joining meetings any more. but if I can help, I'm happy to oblige.
* AB: I'm not part of this team long but I thank you for your work there.
* RV: Thanks.


### Tracking community contributions for content translations
URL: https://github.com/solid/team/issues/25

* SC: Follows action of https://github.com/solid/team/blob/main/meetings/2022-04-13.md#community-contributions-to-translate-content . Just awareness, we don't need to discuss this now, but do contribute if you can.


### Support for Solid meetup in other cities/countries
URL: https://github.com/solid/team/blob/main/meetings/2022-04-13.md#support-for-solid-meetup-in-other-citiescountries

>ACTION: Timea to dig for previous info

* TT: The materials are all on solidproject.org/events . I just didn't scroll to the end :) that page is very long. and meanwhile team member John had a meetup in MN - due to tornado alert, there were less people than expected but still nice. I think he wants to continue doing more. All the links /material were useful and he was thankful as followup.
* TT: Do we mention these meetups / continue to mention on the events page?
* TBL: I thought so. Should we mention them also in events page where they find meetups and also SW last week or coming up for that matter.
* TT: Thought there was on in UK but didn't get the link.
* TBL: Thought there was in Manchester.
* TT: If I'd know I'll make a PR to events page.
* AB: good..
* TBL: I see solid-mcr out there.


### Access Controls

#### Members of the W3C Solid Community Group need appropriate access controls to repositories
* SC: Panel teams are not practical or maintainable. We only care about the CG - that's what the W3C CLA/CEPC, Solid CoC are about. Flat organisation.
* SC: For repos under solid/ , solid-contrib/ , or anywhere else that pertains to the CG.
* SC: Do we need a Solid CG Team and give them Read access to all Work Items? Can this be synchronised/maintained e.g., matching CG membership? It will limit contributions to Work Items to CG members. Makes sense given CLA expectation.
* SC: Editors/Authors of Work Item repositories often (in practice) need to have Maintain access.
* SC: I can create repos for the CG provided need/documentation, e.g., meeting minutes. And/Or Admin Team will promptly.
* SC: PROPOSAL:
  * Every CG member will have "Read" access on CG repos (GitHub).
  * Authors of Work Items to have "Write" access.
  * Editors of Work Items to have "Maintain" access.
  * CG Chair to have "Admin" access.
* SC: Anything else? Is "Triage" actually useful? Is any repo even using that?


#### Members of the Solid Team should have appropriate access controls to their work
* RV: Relevant https://github.com/solid/team/issues/27

* VB: Don't have an answer but have a complaint :) re CoCC because I have to keep forks, I can't assign reviewers. Essentially I can't do anything - always have to ping someone.
* RV: I discovered that we have an issue with the controls. If you don't have access we add you.
* RV: It is not necessary but we put them in the Team - adding people to the org and they have permissions. easier to manage.
* TT: To clarify that's Teams on GH or?
* RV: Yes.
* TT: That was sort of the only place where I can understand what roles people have. I didn't know other point of entry or truth.
* JZ: When I think of single point of truth. The list of contacts/members that Tim maintains on solidproject.solidcommunity.net in Groups. It seems to be the source of truth and we should have a GH mirror / Teams synchronised with that.
* TBL: If people want to use the GH to make changes, that's okay. So we decided to give people a role. have two things in parallel.. PR and changing contacts.
* AB: Agree with TBL to keep things in parallel. The problem seems to be the 'removal from teams'. It does not concern any person.. it is very easy for someone to say 'I want to join' if they want to be part of a group - it is agreed globally to accept them. when people are not participating any more, there is no process to removing anyone. The question there is not ... it is human being to say so you're not part of it any more. roles .... so we should review roles to update (eg. every 6 months ). With owner role it is more difficult. We should clarify things for the sake of everybody. Admin is exactly the same thing. It has no real impact but it can do a lot of things. If I decide not to participate any more, then you should take me out of the admin list.
* TBL: I agree
* SC: Is there an action?
* TT: Follow up next month. Come up with a process proposal, then apply the process. This might come from conclusion around maria and Sharon regarding Marrelle. they were pressing to update the website, and to be honest, we didn't know what to say.


### Publishing Solid Community Survey
* VB: how to publish last year's Solid Community Survey (a D3 project) under https://solidproject.org/survey
* VB: Kyra and I are finishing up the survey. We're just fixing up stuff. We've been delaying for a while. Our goal is to publish under /survey but need someone to help with this because it is a D3 project. Where to put it in the repo, if we can how to put that on the website. Can someone volunteer to help me out?
* SC: Does that have to do with the content/template management system and how they work together..
* VB: Yes.
* VB: I just want to know where to put it. No similar examples. So want help on how to integrate.
* SC: Do Creators know / can help better?
* JZ: I do know a bit of how the previous was done but not sure how Jackson and others made. The related question is where we put stuff in a pod or elsewhere. That got pretty confusing with the Creators.
* JM: I'm not as used to the way website is setup. The right place to put it may be the assets folder. Or another folder within. To put D3 in there. Again, I'm not necessarily the organiser of this repo. Take that with a grain of salt. Are there other question besides where to put D3 under?
* VB: If everyone is okay with /survey
* SC: No objection to using that path. Go for it.

### Content Backups and Archiving
#### Gitter Chat
* SC: Do we have a process/scripts to backup or archive Gitter chats under the solid org? If not, I propose to have this in place and run regularly using the Gitter API. There is substantial information there that we need to preserve whether we stick to Gitter or not in a long enough timeline. Prepare for the worst case... (Gitter can disappear tomorrow).
* JZ: Just to answer one question on the agenda : yes, we have gitter-solid which can backup and convert gitter chats to Solid chats, no we don't yet have a process in place to consistently do this to solidproject.solidcommunity.net but it shouldn't be too hard to get that working.
* JZ: https://github.com/solid-contrib/gitter-solid
* JZ: need a process to do it regularly


### Hosting a registry for Solid intro code tutorials
* TT: Example started of here: https://timea.solidcommunity.net/HelloWorld/
* TT: Coming from the need of the community to have different entry point for tutorials for people that want to get started with Solid. I'm working on it, it is not completely ready. big question for next meeting: do you also feel there is a need for this. Do we want to host it under solidproject.org or not. Some feedback would be nice. Designing in a way it is self-managing / community edits and manages.
* SC: Keep in mind solidproject.org will be hosted form a Solid Server - it is a question if it should live on there or not?
* TT: This is just for the registry. I created a Turtle file for it. Another to help display it with JavaScript. It can be hosted almost anywhere, a bit like the /survey approach. Homework for next time to think if we we want to have something like this under the Solid Team umbrella.
* SC, TT: to be continued.
