# Solid Project: Solid Team

* Date: 2022-01-12T16:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-team
* Chat: https://gitter.com/solid/team
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/team
* Status: Published


## Present
* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i)
* Alain Bourgeois
* Jackson
* Jeff Zucker
* Kelly
* Kyra
* Justin
* Oz
* TimBL
* Timea
* Vincent
* Virgina
* Marrelle

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.


### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribes
* Justin
* Jackson


### Introductions
* name: text

---

## Topics


### Support Role at solid/process
URL: https://github.com/solid/team/blob/main/meetings/2021-11-10.md#marrelle-activity

* KO: Role meant specifically for some of the items that Kelly is taking on.

* JWB: Communications?

* TIMBL: Better word for Communications? More operational?

ACTION: JB and KB to get a PR in place for Tim to review



### Solid World Process
* SC: Document Solid Team's minutes/decisions involving Solid World in solid/team (chat/repo)... towards transparency, avoid basic conflicts (e.g., the new timeslot for Solid World overlaps with Notifications Panel, and there was no discussion on record how or why that came to be.)
* SC: No publicly readable or accessible infor about decisions made around Solid World (notes above). Understand there are people organizing / making it happen, but not documented anywhere. Have been asked in the past about it - should be more publicly visible. Found out scheduling is different and overlaps with one of the panels. Panels originally avoided overlap with solid world but recent change overlaps with it. How was scheduling decided and why wasn't it checked that the team or panels wouldn't overlap? How can we improve that?
* KO: First point (comms role) should help as part of that solution. We're making solid world coord more visible and transparent. I'll start coming to these meetings / updates on agenda. Because Solid World happens every month you have to move pretty fast to get a quality output every month.
* OZ: For events like this we have to be a little bit flexible. Calendars are hard / can be weird holidays, etc. Expect we'll have to change dates every once in a while for various reasons.
* SC: Main point will be how/why decision was made / ensure that we communicate better on those. Who gets to speak / why.
* KO: Ack
* SC: Ideally provide some more updates through solid chat on agenda / changes

NOTE: Second thursday of each month / 10AM US Eastern / 4PM Central European

### Meetings in Calendar
* SC: I've created https://csarven.solidcommunity.net/solidproject.ics which includes all panel and team meetings -- I don't know where it should live long term but I hope we can resolve that in the next meeting.
* SC: We could perhaps have a separate .ics for each event and one .ics that has all.
* SC: Not sure if invitations are necessary. Would importing a calendar work better long term? We'll have a canonical location to update this stuff - Anyone in the community can look that up.
* RV: Can we please have invites? Some of us already balance a high number of calendars.
* RV: Also, can the events/invites include links to the meeting notes? For most other meetings, the invite contains everything one needs to get started.

* SC: Idea was to have one URL for calendar events that includes various meetings and panels

* JB: Can we point to one page that has links to individual ics files?
* SC: would be handy to have both
* TIMBL: Is it automatable? (i think so)

* KA: Can we publish on solidproject.org (events page)?
- Agreement - publish on solidproject.org (can host .ics in pod)

* SC: Solid events is a table with recurring events - seems to be more solid world + not recurring events. May need to update the format.
* KA: Will look to see what the best way to present is
* JB: Will notify different panels
* SC: Noting that W3C has some infrastructure to create these events. Can be noisy on event changes. But what's agreed should be sufficient


### Ad-hoc Topic Proposals for the Solid Team Agenda
* SC: FWIW, I've been tagging messages with `#solidteamagenda` in the solid/team channel for potential topics for Team meetings. Helps to throw them into the agenda when we can.
* SC: The Gitter search function works. Just input "#solidteamagenda" (or without hash)


### Solid Protocol Publication and Access
* SC: Following the ACTION to a PROPOSAL I made here: https://github.com/solid/specification/blob/main/meetings/2021-12-22.md#solid-protocol-publication-and-access
* SC: The publication of the next release of the Solid Protocol specification (i.e., "v1.0", "~REC", or equivalent) MUST be accessible from a Solid server, along with all other resources under https://solidproject.org/ . To make it so we need commitment (issue/milestone..) and coordination from everyone that may be involved (Solid Team, server/app developers..).
* SC: Relevant for any asset being published at solidproject.org (including Solid World material; event announcements, slides...) going forward.


#### Migrating solidproject.org to CSS
* JB: ..
* RV: Feel free to make an issue on https://github.com/solid/community-server/ with checkboxes as to what still needs to happen; we'd be glad to help.
* TIMBL: Short term, statically put all the webpages on a Solid server. Long term link with git.
* Jackson: Should we continue with the same workflow on git or should we have access to a Solid Pod.
* Kyra: I personally would just like to have access to the Solid Pod so that we can more flexibly edit the site.
* alain: But if you don't use github you won't get versioning.
* Decided Workflow: Push regular HTML documents to github and it gets put on a Solid Pod
* Should send a notification to creators on the decided process


#### GitHub Action for a Solid Client
* JB: github action for a solid client that can be used (e.g. for above) to securely deploy items from git repo to a solid server


#### CSS Module to Read-Write to Repository
* SC: Noting for awareness, no need to discuss: https://github.com/solid/community-server/issues/1114 .
* Timbl: CSS shouldn't know that git is running.

### Adding Community Videos
* TT: vimeo account and adding other community videos (know-how transfer form solidOS)
* Timea: Did some knowledge transfer videos on Authentication. They're long and we're looking for a place to host the videos. We can't put them on a Pod because they are too large. And we can't put them on vimeo.
* Oz: There should be some oversight for what videos are uploaded.
* Jeff: We would have a video repository open to the Solid team.
* Admins: set up a public readable media folder for Solid Team Uploads.


### Support migrating apps from legacy auth to DPoP auth
* AB: We have a problem where most apps don't work with the new auth standard
* Timbl: For each app, we need to contact each person to get them to upgrade.
* Alain: I will contact evingston to do the contacts.
