# Solid Project: Solid Team

* Date: 2023-01-11T16:00:00Z
* Call: <https://meet.jit.si/solid-team>
* Chat: <https://gitter.com/solid/team>
* Repository: <https://github.com/solid/team>

## Present

* [Jackson Morgan](https://jackson.solidcommunity.net/profile/card#me)
* Alain Bourgeois
* Timea Turdean
* Jeff Zucker

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts

* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent.
  Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone,
  recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.

### Participation and Code of Conduct

* [Solid Code of
  Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md),
  [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional
  Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across
  disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and
  meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.

### Scribes

* Jackson Morgan, Timea

---

## Topics

### Service Interruption
- Timea: We had a service interruption this month of about half a day.
- Alain: That was my mistake it is corrected. Normally this is avoided except for when the server crashes.
- Timea: David from Inrupt saw that there were alerts of the system being down.
- An example to check if it is running: A more reliable process in place for renewing certs. For example add the step to execute "curl -v -k https:/solidcommunity.net 2>&1 | grep -i expir"
- Alain: I solved it because we have now an automatic process in place which renews certificates and ALSO restart the server - 
- Step 1: renewal of certs is automatic - made by systemd. Fixed it with Justin
- Step 2: restart update - there is a cron job for it now -> it is a work in progress to change it to ONLY restart after certs renewal. Now it is doing a restart every day. Alain is working on it.


### Transfer DevOps access of SolidProject.org to Inrupt
* logins have been shared - Inrupt wants the community to fix and intervene but they can alert us in advance or when a problem occurs.
* The previous problem was about the domain name
- step 1: renew domain bill on gandi
- step 2: payment for the hosting
- step 3: renew of certificates
- step 4: restart server

- how to do stuff is kept up to date here: https://github.com/solid/solidcommunity.net/wiki
 
### Domain name renewal and co
<https://github.com/solid/process/issues/308>
* Timea: is the domain name also part of the services we pay for ourselves?
* Jackson: ask Amy.

ACTION: follow up with Amy.

### Founding an official Solid organisation 
* one reason is for public donations - example of such donation platform: Open Collective
* Jackson: is this different from W3C working group?
* Alain: it could be. 
* Timea: I would propose to wait with the topic to see how the W3C working group will influence the community.
* Alain: i propsed it just because beofre we were in a University environemnet but we are slowly moving away from it. 

### Adding a test suite section on the process readme. 
* PR open here: 

URL: https://github.com/solid/process/pull/240/files#

* The PR in place does not mention any test suite it is only about the fact that we have them.
* Jackson: I do not have a problem with it. 

### The Gitter situation
* Timea: do we have to do anything for the community?
* Jeff: the change passed so I am not sure what will change. Is it the same?
* Jackson: my assumption is that the interface is fine
* Alain: the gitter api will dissapear and there will be only a matrix api. I am not sure if the change it was alreay done.
* Timea: is there any link on the website that needs updated?
* Jeff: I will assume it will be same URL but maybe I am wrong. 
* Timea: we should keep an eye on it.
* Jackson: "in the long term it is not efficient to maintain 2 high profile clients. We will merge Gitter into Element". I guess Gitter IM is going to turn into Element. This means the links will be fine but Gitter client will be sunset.
* Timea: so we do not need any action, each community user needs to take action on themselves.

### Gitter backup
URL: https://github.com/solid-contrib/gitter-solid/issues/34
* Jackson: The problem is not Gitter itself but it is the integration with Solid
* Matrix is a standardized chat api and chnages done there will break the Gitter integration.
* Alain: Jeff made the work to backup Gitter on Solid Pod
* Jeff: Tim wrote it I just updated it. I saw the PR of it. He started the process to integrate it with the Matrix API to grab all the chats from Gitter and stores them in pod containers. He has a complete backup of solid public chats.
* Alain: I am only a member in solid-contrib -> can I be changed to admin?
* Jeff: in november I was tasked with an action of where teh repos were gone. I have a bit of work put into that, in RDF. A list of repos - as a page or a website (RDFa) for what the repos are. Alain, maybe I send it to you and maybe you can help me to figure out what things in contrib will be listed there.
* Jeff: i will focus on the list of repos but not the Gitter backup. 

ACTION: Timea to add Alain as Owner role.

### Follow up on stream 
URL: https://github.com/solid/team/issues/34
* Jeff: I was working on this in RDF - an ideas how to merge.
* Jeff: there are 3 places where team are mentiones - process, solidproject.org, solidos contacts.
* Timea: source of truth: [solid/team#33](https://github.com/solid/team/issues/33)
* Timea: https://solidproject.org/team needs to be updated - will 
* steps: update information
* step: update the https://solidproject.org/team page
* Timea: I would like the page to have the look and feel of the current page.
* Jeff: this should be a priority and try to integrate it later.
* Jeff: is it going to be still Jackl? or will we change it to solid community? This needs to be in: make an open discussion with the idea around that. As a sorce of truth Tim wanted the contact in SolidOS contact. 
* Alain: a place to discuss that - Jackson issue is just for discussion. Official list can be still the SolidOS contacts list.

ACTION: Timea to update SolidOS contacts accordingly


### Ports 3000 and 3001 is resolved
* Alain confirms they are working.

## DONE ACTIONS:

### Third Party app access update <https://github.com/solid/team/issues/31>


## NEXT TIME:

### Solid team lists
* What is the official list for the future?

### RDFying the Solidproject website
* how to proceed?
