# Solid Project: Solid Team

* Date: 2024-06-12T15:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-team
* Chat: https://gitter.com/solid/team
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/team


## Present
* Hadrian Zbarcea
* Michiel de Jong
* Jeff Zucker
* Osmar Olivo
* Grace Elcock (on behalf of Tim)
* Ted (notes only)


---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts

* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.


### Participation and Code of Conduct

* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.

### Scribes

* Michiel

---

## Topics

### Website go-live
https://github.com/solid/solidproject.org/pull/891

* Michiel: there are some gh-actions failures and some conflicts but I think we can just merge and Netlify will work
* Michiel: I think it's good to wait for the html-coded version of Giselle's changes
* Oz: yes, I just checked in with her, she was editing the HTML and CSS to address some of the whitespace and UX issues. It will be done today.
* Michiel: I think there are no other objections. Any objections here during this call?
* Jeff: Let's get it online, finally! :)
* Oz: I think there was one bit of feedback, it was with the for-users and for-developers, they are two pages with more or less the same content. Not a blocker, but a thing to look at, merging those two.
* Oz: [Hosted Pod Services](https://deploy-preview-891--musical-sawine-26ffa9.netlify.app/for-developers) is basically the same as [Get a Pod](https://deploy-preview-891--musical-sawine-26ffa9.netlify.app/users/get-a-pod)
* Michiel: Yes, but look at the staged version, it shows a banner 'historical content'
* https://github.com/solid/solidproject.org/pull/898
* https://github.com/solid/solidproject.org/issues/900
* Jeff: we should take a snapshot of the current site -> https://github.com/solid/solidproject.org/issues/899
* Oz: Update: Giselle expects to wrap up the html this afternoon with help from engineers at Inrupt
* Michiel: OK! I'll do the merge tomorrow!
* Oz, Jeff: thanks everyone for getting this done!
* Michiel: I actually did a very small portion of the actual work, but I'm also glad it's done
* Jeff: Solid Practitioners. future plan: include a number of those organisations on the solidproject.org page for organisations.
* Michiel: yes!

## solidcommunity.net
* Michiel: sorry, still no progress from Theo or me on https://github.com/solid-contrib/pivot/issues/2, https://github.com/solid-contrib/pivot/issues/3, and https://github.com/solid-contrib/pivot/issues/4, so we still can't switch from NSS to CSS
* Jeff: there's been some good activity in NSS development
* Oz: I'm more concerned about the security of it
* Jeff: link from webid profile to oidc provider is fixable.
* Oz: maybe this is just an open topic for another meeting
* Michiel: should we do a summer holidays break?
* Oz & Jeff: No, we can just stick to the schedule and people can decide on an individual basis which ones they need to skip
* Michiel: OK, I'll only skip the August one. See you next month!

ACTIONS: Michiel to chat with Theo about blockers for solidcommunity.net NSS->CSS
Next meeting: Wednesday 10 July
