# Solid Project: Solid Team

* Date: 2024-02-14T15:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-team
* Chat: https://gitter.com/solid/team
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/team


## Present
* Hadrian Zbarcea
* Alain Bourgeois
* Kyra Assaad
* Giselle Wenban
* Michiel de Jong
* Jeff Zucker
* Osmar Olivo


---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts

* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.


### Participation and Code of Conduct

* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.

### Scribes

* Kyra Assaad

---

## Topics

### GH Access

The Solid Team manages the solid GH repos. 
* HZ: What is the relationship between the CG and the ST? 
* MdJ: Solid GH is owned by ST and not CG
* HZ: With what obligations? Is there an SLA? Who should someone reach out to for problems to be resolved? How do we self organize for things to work better?
* JZ: First step is having document that says who has admin rights. If someone needs admin rights, they go to someone on that list. If there's a problem, they should bring it to this team. 
* MdJ: The way to improve is the issue I just created (https://github.com/solid/team/issues/62). The ST is the "IT guy" in this.
* HZ: Are there responsibilities the ST has that isn't part of the CG?
* JZ: Yeah, there's solidproject.org, the Practitioners group, the forum...
* HZ: I think it would be good if there was more stuff done offline, instead of relying on monthly meetings
* MdJ: Meetings aren't good at driving work, but given we don't do a lot of work, the meetings are sufficient. 
* HZ: When stuff are worked on, where do we find what is being worked on?
* JZ: There's a PR for the scope of the ST. There should be a number of task forces, with leads. Once that's approved, we are going to make a push to get people to become leads. Right now we have a task force for the administrators, the website work, and the Practitioners. There are other task forces that we don't have anyone leading (like onboarding). I propose we finalize the scope, and list the unfilled positions and then go to the community with a massive drive to find people to work on these task forces. As those get more active, we may need to go to more frequent meetings. We need to be able to all communicate with each other and get on the same page in terms of collab. I agree right now that once a month is sufficient. I would say the scope PR is what defines the future direction of the team. 
* MdJ: The big scope PR has been merged. 
* MdJ: There's no top down organization to the team. The project as a whole is additive. Most of the activity happens outside the ST, for example the Practitioners, the CGs, etc. People team up, get funding, work on things. It happens in a distributed manner, so the ST is the "IT team" to coordinate and have some structure, but the team doesn't tell the CG what to do (or vice versa)
* JZ: I agree there's no authority, but I disagree we're simply an IT group. We are uniquely in a position to see the bredth of what's going on in Solid. There's no one other than this team that sits in a place where we can see all the things going on. It's really important to have an overview of what's going on, so we can discuss things that happen in one area and how that impacts things in another group. Ex: Hadrian and I are talking about hackathons in the Practitioner group. That's a fundamental role of this team. There's no org that is in a better position to increase the adoption and bredth of the community of Solid. If anyone is going to do that, it's going to be this team that reaches out to get things going. Both goes way beyond being an IT desk, and I see them as fundamental parts of the team. 
* MdJ: You're right, I agree. 

### Task Force
* MdJ: I volunteer to lead this task force for PR54: https://github.com/solid/team/pull/54. There's a dev onboarding experience and user onboarding experience. These are the closest things that I'm trying to do with the Friday meeting, to fix broken tutorials, etc. 
* Any objections? No.
* JZ: Let's try to get people from the community involved. 



### Solid World
* JZ: Hadrian and I are making the Solid World together coming up Feb 27. It's going to be a Practitioners meeting. Going to hear from 4 of them about beneficial work using Solid, I'll be MCing. We want a 5 min slot for someone in the ST to summarize what's going on in the team. Can I get a volunteer to present the 5 minutes on the 27th? I can do it this time, but let's keep in mind this will be recurring. 
* KA: Suggest to post on gitter for volunteers
* HZ: https://github.com/solid/solidproject.org/pull/843 There's a request to add SW to the team calendar. Christy merged a comment from Ted. I gave an approval to the PR, but we don't know who has the karma to merge it. 
* Any objections from those present? No
* JZ: We know it's been a sensitive topic about who is presenting SW, but we think it is clear, so if there are any further objections, we can handle it. Hadrian and I have been working well on SW together, so hopefully this will continue going forward. 

### Practitioners
* Next meeting will be about indexing and search. Will have a joint meeting with the CG where we bring what we talked about to discuss where it is in the current standards, roadmap, and whether to look outside Solid for that (search). 

### RDF Site Builder
* JZ: I have a RDF site builder that will what we're doing with Jekyll but will do it with an RDF basis, so we will have a flow to implement the website from RDF sources. It's all HTML based so it should be easy for people to contribute/design the website. When we're at a stable place with the redesign of the website, I'd like to demo it. It would take the design of the site as it exists and templatizes it. There would be a header page, footer page, and then they would be merged together at the end. For example the Pod Providers, it would look at the template and insert how we want to display that. 
* KA: Timeline is end of February for it to be in a good place, let's check back in then. 
* JZ: That will give me a couple of weeks to finalize it, so hopefully I can demo it then. We might have to clone it from GH just to make sure GH Actions work. It does at least as well Jekyll, and it's semantic, so we are dogfooding.
* JZ: Along with that, we need the Shape for organizations. The website is going to be an RDF tree. Here's the proj, here are the stakeholders, here's what htey are doing, here are the resources. Each is going to be an RDF connected thing. So that needs a Shape. I put up several notices in the gitter chat. If anyone has thoughts on which ontologies/terms to use, please give me some feedback. If I don't hear more feedback, I'll just create the graphs and generate the site, and we can talk later about the details of how the graphs are constructed. 


### Events list in redesign
* MdJ: Who is going to fill in the past events on the redesign?
* KA: I was going to do that as part of my work on it

### CG vs WG
* MdJ: I was thinking about whether the CG should reduce its scope to not overlap with what the WG is working on, but maybe not for this team to discuss. 
* OO: Maybe not for this team.

### Ecosystem tests
* MdJ: Working on ecosystem tests, so we don't just have a stack of specs, we actually will have a working demo. 